Growing spiritually means growing in your trust and obedience of Him.
But what does an intimate relationship with God look like? What does that even mean?
Tonight Joel Thomas is going to spend a few minutes talking about that. But before he does, we went around our neighborhood getting some thoughts on the subject.
Heavenly Father.
Someone to take care of you and watch over you. Do you feel just a spiritual well-being when you hear the words?
God.
There's only one.
Very nice
Never made it all.
I don't see him with having much personality.
Leaving the personality to his angels and saints.
No, I don't think there's any personal. I think it's very...
Like, if anything, I think it's just...
I don't envision a person...
By any means whatsoever.
This person is probably the most interesting personality of all. So just because all of the variations of it,
End up being reflected in what type of people are.
Here on this
Earther in this universe so somebody that's like all-knowing and can
You know, know your steps before you take them and also like lead you down the right path.
It depends on what
How people interpret
Um, how, how,
He or she communicates to you. I mean, you know, because it could be for me. It's, you know, it's...
intuition and I just said voice that just says to you
Um...
In certain direction, on certain questions. I think it's possible to feel a godlike presence.
Do I believe you can have a conversation and expect an actual reply? No, I do not.
I feel like for me it's like a continual conversation kind of throughout the day, whatever I'm kind of struggling with or need help with, and I constantly, um,
I have to remind myself that he's kind of always with me because sometimes I start stressing out about...
you know, whatever, and I forget to just...
Just call on him.
People believe in a higher power
It allows them to wield a lot of power.
And so they can leverage that.
power against.
So I actually think religion is actually the cause of the majority of problems in the world.
I mean, I think that everyone has kind of their own relationship and communicates in their own different way, whether it's
Just being thankful or praying or
You know, meditation, whatever that is, but that connection.
I do. I think you can have a very spiritual relationship with whatever God
You believe in. I think it's important that if you're going to be spiritual, you sort of seek that.
You're never really finished with it though.
Yeah, I think that God would be such.
Such a higher being that it's not possible really to ever know and fully understand it.
I recently had the opportunity to reconnect with an old friend from childhood over coffee, and it was amazing. After just a few moments and a few sentences, it was like no time had passed at all. It was so easy. I mean, 10 years.
10 years had passed and yet this friend that had been like one of my closest friends growing up again felt like one of my closest friends. Some of you may have experienced the same thing. You may have a friend or
Or a few friends that that happens with. But isn't that rare?
Why is it that that happens that way? Is it chemistry?
It's a personality.
Is it history?
I believe it's by design.
I believe that we find in the scriptures and the genesis account of creation the answer to what this actually is. In fact, it says this, it says, "Let us make man in our
And in our image, God is
in our likeness. Now that's amazing. God decided of all the things He created in the world, He decided to create you.
And me.
in his likeness. Now, it may seem a little strange, but God also says, if you notice how he says it, he says, "Let us know."
make mankind in our image, in our likeness. We find out throughout the scriptures that there really is only one God, we're told.
But that God is in three persons: God the Father, and God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, which is commonly known as the Trinity. God in three persons, yet one.
And he created you.
And he created me with that same capacity, with that same nature, the capacity for oneness of relationship. In fact, in the very first human relationship, we see a model for
model for this as Adam and Eve are instructed to join together and become one flesh.
And the type of close one relationship that we experience that's modeled in marriage is the type of relationship that God created us with the possibility for.
In fact, in the Gospel of John, John records a prayer of Jesus where he's praying to the Father and he prays that we would be one. He prays for all believers together that we would be one.
He prays to the Father. He says, Father, as I am in you and as you are in me, may they also be in us and may we all be one together.
together. He prayed that you and I would have the ability to be one with one another. Now, the amazing thing about that language is this is language of access. Jesus made it possible.
it possible for you and I to have access to the Father. And Jesus prayed that this is what would be possible for us. My guess is that the people that you're closest with in life,
They have special access to you.
To your thoughts and to your emotions.
To the things you do.
And when you give others access, relationships deepen.
The greater the access, the greater the intimacy in our relationship with each other,
And in our relationship with god.
I believe that's why in another one of John's writings in the book of Revelation, we see Jesus saying,
I stand at the door and I knock.
And if you'll open the door, I'll come in and I'll eat with you and you with me. This is figurative language for community, for relationship, for communion.
For intimacy.
When we open the door to our Heavenly Father, when we open the door to our relationships, we open the door to our career, we open the door to our finances, we open the door to our thought life. As we open the door to our
Lord, every area of our lives, allowing God to speak into our lives through his word and through others, our relationship with him deepens. Our intimacy with God grows and what needs to be done.
And what Jesus prayed actually becomes possible for you and for me.
But giving God full access to your life.
Being open and honest about what's really going on in your heart is essential to growing spiritually and to forming healthy relationships. And that's what you're going to talk about tonight.
But before you do, I want to remind you that for people to be authentic about what's really going on in their lives and to share that with the group,
They have to know that what's being said in group stays in group.
So keep that in mind tonight and in the discussions to come.